In Spring Security OAuth,
the authentication providers are responsible for validating the
access token and converting it into an authentication.
Now there are different flavors of authentication providers.
On the client side,
we have different flavors of providers depending on if you are using
OAuth2 or OpenID Connect and what grant type was chosen.
There you will use a GrantedAuthoritiesMapper to
customize your granted authorities.
Check out module 2, which goes over that.
For our resource server, the default provider is the JwtAuthenticationProvider.
If we look at its implementation, it first uses a JwtDecoder,
which validates the token.
You customized this in module 7 to add additional validation.
Once the token is validated,
it is converted into an authentication object with all the claims,
scopes, and granted authorities.
Hence,
you need to customize the converter to add roles to the
authentication principals authorities.
The default implementation for the converter is the JwtAuthenticationConverter.
You see it has the getScopes and extractAuthorities methods.
For scopes,
it uses the WELL_KNOWN_SCOPE_ATTRIBUTE_NAMES to find them in
the JWT and adds them with the SCOPE_PREFIX.
Hence,
we can create a class that extends the JwtAuthenticationConverter
and override the extractAuthorities method.
Here we can call the parent to get the scopes.
If you wanted to, you could get the scopes and map them yourself.
You could get additional ones from a database or other location or even add
them to the granted authorities without the SCOPE prefix.
Now for our use case, we'll extract the roles claim from the JWT.
And if the user has a portfolio-admin role,
we will add an admin role to the granted authorities and return it.
Now in our SecurityConfiguration class, we can just add it to the JWT endpoint,
which will now plug in our version of the converter
into the JWT authentication provider.
Now the state of the user is coming from the JWT and not the database. Next, let's look at a more finer-grained authorization at the method level.